---
layout: post
title: "SQLate"
description: from Iris CTF 2025
# img: assets/img/12.jpg
date: 2025-01-15 01:00:00-0000
category: pwn
related_posts: false
---

***
From [Iris CTF 2025](https://irisc.tf/).
You can download all challenge files from [here](https://github.com/IrisSec/IrisCTF-2025-Challenges/tree/main/sqlate) and run the application locally.

***
## Application Overview
- The provided code represents a **Pastebin-like application** with several functionalities for creating, updating, viewing, and listing "pastes" stored in an **SQLite database**. 

- The application also features a user system, with distinct **permissions** for performing actions such as creating, updating, or viewing pastes.
```c
enum user_flags {
    permission_create = 1<<1,
    permission_update = 1<<2,
    permission_view = 1<<3,
    permission_list = 1<<4,

    permission_login = 1<<5,
    permission_register = 1<<6,

    permission_root = 1<<8,
};
``` 
- By default, users can log in anonymously with limited permissions.
```c
void login_anonymous() {
    current_user.userId = -1;
    current_user.flags = permission_create | permission_update | permission_view | permission_list;
    strcpy(current_user.username, "anonymous");
}
```

## Root permissions give the flag
- The menu includes six options:
```c
printf(
    "\n===== SQLate =====\n"
    "1) Create new Paste\n"
    "2) Update a Paste\n"
    "3) Show a Paste\n"
    "4) List all Pastes\n"
    "5) Login / Register\n"
    "6) Exit\n"
    "\n"
    "> "
```
- However, there is a hidden 7th option that checks if the user has `permission_root`. If true, it calls the `actions_sys()` function to retrieve the flag.
```c
...
case '7': {
    if (!check_permissions(permission_root)) continue;

    action_sys();
    continue;
}
...
...
void action_sys() {
    system("/usr/bin/cat flag");
}
```

## Update functionality
- When updating a paste, we can choose which field to update and apply a modifier:
```c
void action_update() {
    sqlite3_stmt *stmt;

    printf(
        "Which field?\n"
        "1) Language\n"
        "2) Content\n"
        "\n"
        ">"
    );

    int c = getc(stdin);
    getc(stdin);

    if (c != '1' && c != '2') return;
    const char* field = c == '1' ? "language" : "content";

    if (c == '2') {
        printf(
            "Which modifier?\n"
            "1) None\n"
            "2) Hex\n"
            "3) Base64\n"
            "\n"
            ">"
        );
...
```
- Using the **hex modifier** for updating `content`, the input string is converted into its hexadecimal ASCII representation.

- For example, the input `test`, becomes `746573740a` (the `0a` at the end is the *newline* that is appended when we press *Enter*).

- This results in the updated `content` value being **double** the input size (plus 2 bytes for the newline).

- The `content` property of the `paste` struct is 256 bytes long. 
```c
struct paste {
    int rowId;
    char title[256];
    char language[256];
    char content[256];
};
```
- A buffer overflow occurs if we supply a **128-byte input** with the **hex modifier**, as the resulting **258-byte** (2*128 + 2) output exceeds the buffer size.

- The app implements an overflow detection check, but it is **flawed**, since it only denies inputs with over `192` bytes in length.
```c
...
    else if (c == '2') {
            if (strlen(line_buffer) > 192) err(EXIT_FAILURE, "Attempted to overflow!");
        }
...
...
```
- Therefore, there is definitely a buffer overflow vulnerability when updating the `content` property of a paste. But can we somehow exploit that?

## Exploiting the vulnerability
- Whenever we view a paste, the app queries the database, updates a global paste struct and passes it to the `print_paste(struct paste *paste)` function.

- Our user struct object, named `current_user` is also a global object.
```c
struct paste paste;
struct user current_user;
```
- Both objects reside in the `.bss` section of memory, which makes sense as they are uninitialized.
<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/writeups/irisCTF/sqlate1.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true%}
    </div>
</div>

- Their addresses are `0x320` bytes apart, meaning they are stored sequentially in memory.

- By overflowing the `content` property of the `paste` struct, we can overwrite the `flags` property in the `current_user` struct, potentially granting root permissions:

```c
struct paste {
    int rowId;
    char title[256];
    char language[256];
    char content[256];
};

struct user {
    int userId;
    uint64_t flags;
    char username[256];
    char password[256];
};

struct paste paste;
struct user current_user;
```
- I ran the app through [gdb](https://www.sourceware.org/gdb/) and determined the exact addresses of the structs:
  -  `current_user` address: `0x55555567ce20`(`BASE_ADDRESS + 0x128e20`).
  -   `flags` property address: `0x55555567ce28` (after 4 bytes for the `userId` plus 4 bytes for stack alignment).
<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/writeups/irisCTF/sqlate2.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true%}
    </div>
</div>

- Since I was logged in anonymously with limited permissions, the `flags` property of my `current_user` struct had the value `0x000000000000001e` (`0..00011110` in binary), indicating *create*, *update*, *view* and *list* permissions.

- The `permission_root` value is defined as `1<<8` (`100000000` in binary). To gain root permissions, the `flags` property must be updated to a value like `0x000000000000011e` (Basically the 9th least significant bit must be `1`). Our target byte for modification is located at address `0x55555567ce29`.

- The `paste` struct was found at address `0x55555567cb00`, with its `content` property located at `0x55555567cd04`. The distance from the `content` property to the target byte we need to modify is `0x55555567ce29 - 0x55555567cd04 = 293` bytes. Since we are using the hex modifier, which doubles the size of the input, our input needs to be half of that.

- With a `146` bytes input we can fill the buffer for `content` and start writing on the `user` struct up until the `flag` property. Then with a 147th character we can override the `flags` value.

- I generated the following payload using `python3 -c "print(146 * 'A' + '1')"` :
```
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA1
```

- I updated a paste using the hex modifier and the payload above. Then, by listing the pastes, I triggered the exploit, causing the global `paste` struct to be updated and overflowing into the `current_user` struct.

- The `flags` property was successfuly modified to `0x0000000041303133`. This value includes the `permission_root` bit, granting root permissions.
<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/writeups/irisCTF/sqlate3.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true%}
    </div>
</div>

- Finally I was able to execute option `7` and revealed the flag.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/writeups/irisCTF/sqlate4.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true%}
    </div>
</div>

