---
layout: post
title: Hacked my Uni's Alumni System web app
date: 2024-11-21 00:15:00+0200
description: I discovered a broken access control vulnerability in UCY's alumni system web app that allowed me to change other users' passwords.
tags: broken-access-control
categories: web
giscus_comments: false
related_posts: true
toc:
  sidebar: left
---

**TL;DR :** I discovered a broken access control vulnerability in UCY's alumni system web app that allowed me to change other users' passwords.

## Observation
- In June 2024 I graduated (🎉) from the Computer Science Department at the University of Cyprus, and joined the **UCY's alumni system** web app.
- During account registration, I wasn’t able to choose my own password; instead, a cleartext password was sent to me via email (🤔).
- This made me curious about the overall security of the app, and I wondered if I could uncover any critical vulnerabilities.

## Identifying the vulnerability
- I noticed that the app has a **reset password** functionality.
- For this feature, a `POST` request was being sent to the `/pub_alumni_open/ALUMNI_V2.alumnis_pck.exec_reset` endpoint with two arguments: `email` and `new_password`.
- I tested the password reset process by attempting to **reset my own password** while **modifying** the session cookie to check if it was properly validated.
- To my surprise, the password was **successfully updated** even with an **invalid** session cookie.
- Next, I **removed** the session cookie **entirely** and sent the password reset request again.
- Once again, the password was successfully updated. At this point I confirmed that the application **did not verify** whether the user requesting the password change is the actual owner of the email for which the change request is made.
- In fact the session cookie was not checked at all, meaning a **completely unauthenticated** `POST` request to the password change endpoint could succeed.
<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ucy/ucy.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true%}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Notice the absence of the session cookie and the successful
response.
</div>

## Exploiting the vulnerability

### Extra testing accounts

- I wanted to test whether I could change another user’s password, so I needed **additional accounts**.
- Although this app is intended exclusively for UCY alumni, I was able to create a second account using the **same ID** and even a **fake ID** like `111111`
- This indicates that an attacker could likely create an account without being a UCY graduate.

### Testing 
- From `accountA` I tried to change `accountB`'s password.
- First, I intercepted the password reset request from `accountA`, modified the email parameter to `accountB`, and forwarded the request.
- Then, I logged into `accountB` using the newly updated password to confirm the change.
- Everything worked as expected, proving that the **vulnerability is exploitable**.

## Reporting
- I reported this bug to UCY's IT infrastructure team, emphasizing its <u>HIGH</u> risk level.
- In my report, I included detailed **steps to reproduce** the issue and provided the following **recommendations**:
  - The application must **deny** any <u>unauthenticated requests</u> or **redirect** them to the login page.
  - During a password change request, the application should **verify** that the email **belongs to the user** associated with the session cookie included in the request.

### UCY's response
- The Acting Head of UCY’s “IT Infrastructure Service” sent me an email to thank me and informed me that my report was being forwarded to UCY’s “Information Applications Services.”
<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/ucy/ucy2.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true%}
    </div>
</div>

- The next day, I received a phone call from the "Information Applications Services" team to thank me once again.
- Two weeks later, the app was updated, and the issue was **resolved**.



